I'm back with the Seif scarf but a lot
more stuffable a few hours later to
carry on with part 2 of this discussion
of the history of Buddhism in the 20th
century and the transition of problems
from now facing the 21st century there
are three big questions that I want to
draw together from the observations and
commentary offered in part one the first
is the general rule that changes in the
structure of political power results in
changes in religious legitimacy there is
no way to exaggerate how profound the
change was in Cambodia when France took
over the government now you may know
nothing about Cambodia small number of
people may be watching this appear
passionately looking look but what's an
easy to think of is that the French
didn't care very much about religion in
Cambodia and the British Empire really
didn't care about Buddhism in Burma but
a small number of colonial powers of
colonial administrators made changes in
the structure of political power that
family influenced everything from what
textbooks were used in schools
- what sermons were being given by
village monks if you don't believe me
even a cursory reading of modern
scholarship on this always reflects this
fact and you know in Cambodia if you
know nothing about
they say well how is that possible you
know that the institutions of the French
created that directly influenced of
Buddhism Cambodia they only employed a
small number of people you know the
interface between the state religion you
know was sort of fleeting and in
substantially they didn't create a
vatican like structure that you see in
italy well that's true but nevertheless
though is she is at the pinnacle of
political power influence those changes
in the opportunities that shape people's
motivations looking to move up social
hierarchy and access money both
government and and donation money have
tremendous influence going right down to
local village level within just a few
years and in the same way that in
politics generally changes in one
political party will profoundly affect
their opposition at a minimum the
opposition that changed the way they
presented message as soon as the french
government takes over cambodia the
protectorate of cambodia it doesn't just
influence the monks who are willing to
play ball with the new girl
it also profoundly transforms all of the
anti colonial sentiments all of the
monks who are in a sense for the
opposition of course this is going on in
the secular world as well as in the
religious world but there's no way to
exaggerate that many of you watching
this don't care in the least about
cambodia everything I've just said you
could also say about Myanmar Burma
everything I've just said is true of the
changes in government in Sri Lanka and
everything I've just said whether or not
it makes you uncomfortable
it's true about Taiwan also if you think
that the incorporation of Taiwan into
the Japanese Empire didn't have a
profound effect on Buddhist institutions
and again that it had a profound effect
on the textbooks used in schools to
teach
children about who they were their place
well it did profoundly change everything
and the outlook of people in Taiwan
thinking of the next hundred years in
the next thousand years being part of a
Japanese world empire that changed
everything and then with the sudden
dissolution of an empire and the sudden
removal of those textbooks from the
classrooms the textbooks that talked
about what the next thousand years was
going to mean the sudden removal even
the dictionaries that were loose with
Japanese Empire if you think that didn't
profoundly affect what was going on in
Buddhism as a religion you're wrong
changes in political structure even when
they involve a small number of people to
talk directly
it's amazing how those read it down to
the bottom
it's amazing how they they change the
motivations and the substance of what's
happening the grassroots and one of the
reasons for that is that in the modern
era in 20th century religion is not
economically independent if you had a
country where religion really was based
on a feudal system owning slaves and
serfs and owning their own farms then
probably you would have a structure of
monks and latest authorities who were
much more resistant to changes both in
the government as a source of patronage
and indirectly how the government cheats
their donors but you don't the twentieth
century was an era when monks work as a
set length and part one in large part
they were refugees but even when they
weren't refugees these institutions were
beggars that were very responsive to any
change in the will of the state and
petrie groups that were themselves also
seeking upward mobility from the
government of the day the second big
question is of how changes in technology
entail challenges to Authority so
if you imagine in part one how do I
describe the scarcity of people with the
skills and advanced literacy to access
the Buddhists Bible to be blunt you know
what is the Buddhist Bible certainly
it's different in the different context
of talking about it's different in
Taiwan than it is in Myanmar Sri Lanka
but in all of these cases there's a
specialized skill set the type of
literacy and charisma needed for people
to approach and make use of canonical
Authority to express what Buddhism is
and what Buddhism is supposed to be and
in the shadow of World War two at the
beginning of this period of time a very
small number of people have those skills
or can even fake it and that
concentrates Authority in a small number
of hands you can see that in Taiwan you
can see that Sri Lanka all of these
diverse situations there are a small
number of people who have scholar monks
and make claims to Authority and you can
then balance political conditions to put
themselves in worldly religious
authority also um that's changed forever
one of the things that has made my own
existence in Buddhist world ten if not
dangerous or at least perceived as
dangerous is that many times I have sat
down with people who have pcs in
Buddhism who are professors in prison
but they do not know the Buddhist vibe
even open the question of which tax
retired they themselves are PE
interpreters ap4 points up a Canon of
one kind or another and yet when they
sit down to talk to me sometimes in a
conference or roomful of people I'm the
only one who knows of that Bible says
and sadly that's not a boat it reflects
what I'm talking to the first
fact that many of the people come out a
very deprived background and they didn't
even have access to the type of
education I managed to create for myself
I'm gonna complete on the Didact that's
another story for another video but very
often whether the question is of
something like the status of women in
Buddhism you know modern topical
questions whether the question is the
status of suicide and what is it all the
questions that come up in 21st century
free debate the reality is that the
authority figures around me are pretty
much winging it very much making things
up and they're in fear of people who can
put them in check by saying no actually
that isn't what the Buddha said in this
Sutra and that's one of many things that
makes Buddhism dramatically different
from Christianity Islam or what have you
she wouldn't show up at a conference
full of Muslim scholars and be the only
person that who knows what's said in the
Quran but Buddhism coming out of that
post-war era has been in a shifting and
unstable relationship to its own sacred
texts and those texts made the
transition from being an almost
unapproachable wall of untranslated and
nearly incomprehensible ancient books to
being in an instantly accessible digital
format very few people now can make use
of that digital world various people
know what they're doing and list the
people who have some competence or
eccentric at best and insane worst but
nevertheless 50 years ago any authority
a monk or a professor could stand in
front of an audience and make up
doctrine off the top of his head and be
confident that nobody in the audience
could challenge it and today there could
be someone in the audience with a laptop
computer
or a mobile phone and checking what the
ancient text says and possibly they've
even got a translation in parallel
meet me at halfway decent English median
really bad are Japanese
bit by bit translations are becoming
accessible in this way also so changes
in political authority have changed the
way legitimate Authority is expressed
and appended and changes in technology
have changed challenges to that
authority and the result is actually
quite anarchic and unstable just as the
question of how economically there's
going to be any future of party these
institutions is quite uncertain and
unstable the third and final big
question that I started to talk about in
part one and I was cut off by war planes
passing overhead the difference between
war and peace is that those airplanes
only go overhead during daylight hours
here right now it's late at night so we
gonna see airplanes going over anymore
there was a real war on if the noise
wouldn't stop I started to say before
the airplanes interrupted me that I do
not feel the future of Buddhism can be
built on a lie and I condensed the
philosophical answer of the late 20th
century
so one name and one philosopher and the
gardener and I still think that's the
concise way to do it you can talk about
you know what's called human realm
Buddhism humanistic Buddhism different
attempts to modernize Buddhism some of
them quite eccentric but what they have
in common is this attempt to reach out
to new gardener and the philosophy of
and
as a sort of proxy in the sense that
it's an ancient enough philosophy yeah
it's not actually the Buddhist
philosophy it's not actually what you
find in the Palantir and it's a
touchstone of authenticity but it
doesn't actually tell it in the
institutional bias it doesn't challenge
you on the status of women doesn't show
anything on the plight of the poor
doesn't challenge you on whether or not
monks should be going on and helping the
homeless the disease doesn't challenge
institutionally in any of the ways that
20th century did of course doesn't
challenge you but corruptions and
mentioned whether or not a monk should
even have a bank account simply touching
gold and silver have you but it provided
this criterion of authenticity that was
just so seductive for white range of
secular and monastic stories but it's
ultimately a distraction from the
problems that those authorities will try
to solve what's the problem the problem
is what we thought was ancient and
authentic and Buddhism we now learn in
the modern era is not before World War
two or four over one obviously the vast
majority of people thought of as
effective and real Buddhism whatever
their grandparents told them and if you
go back to the Middle Ages in Europe if
you go to any population where most
people are literate obviously that's a
natural way for worldly Authority and
religious faith to become a mission
operator
but the shark of the modern era is
learning that guan yin is not something
tough
is not than each of the authentic part
Buddhist one en is just one example part
of the challenge of modernity is
rediscovering what's ancient and what
isn't is that now all the different
texts that before have been rolled into
that Canada floor were part of that wall
of books it was so hard to finally you
were looking for it suddenly each one of
those books has a year written to hunt a
year of authorship and it's a visa
there's an author not the but up so you
know who wrote it when where some extent
guess what one of the most important
texts in the history of Zen Buddhism was
written in Korea neither in China nor in
India its problematic and this
information is available to monks to
scholars so so again for an outsider you
have to appreciate the passion and
desperation with which people wanted to
reach out for Nagarjuna to solve these
problems or diminish their significance
but the gardener just entails further
stating the same problem the Buddha did
not teach that form is emptiness and
emptiness is form we have the same
problems in trying to elevate the
gardener and as a standard of adequate
authentic Buddhism as we would have in
try and take pure land and elevate it to
be a definitive Buddhist philosophy look
millions of people had to face up to the
show that what their grandparents had
taught them of a Pure Land Buddhism is
not what the Buddha taught that's kind
of existential anguish it's very easy
for scholars to paint over or run
roughshod over war just
selectively ignored in the twentieth
century millions of people believe that
repeating a magical phrase over and over
again so that you would get into heaven
after you died was definitive authentic
real Buddhism if we're gonna talk about
your panic gets even crazier and the
perception of which sutras were the most
ancient the most authentic most
definitive all of that changed and it
changed the midst of these terrible
distractions that made people uncertain
of whether or not Buddhism had any
future just a few decades down the road
you know guys like bhikkhu bodhi with a
very difficult to relate to bhikkhu
bodhi was in vietnam when the bombs were
dropping and if he wasn't in Vietnam as
a soldier he was there as an American
wearing Buddhist monks robes and I've
seen his comments on that and says you
know it's hard to guess his tone he said
well you know people felt very uncertain
about whether or not there was any
future for Buddhism in Vietnam at all
that was the floor of the 20th century
if you were in Vietnam and you had
American bombs dropping in her head and
then looking ahead to the future
you had the Vietnamese Communist Party
and its policies on reckless
this is the Oblivion of the 20th century
for Buddhism that now the 21st century
is left picking up bits and pieces